TASK / ASSINGMENT 3

Start - 10th of April 2025,   End - 8th of May 2025 16:00.
Type: Group assignment.
Data set link: http://web.ais.dk/aisdata/aisdk-2023-05-01.zip

Assignment Description: The objective of this assignment is to filter out noise from a given dataset using NoSQL databases 
and perform data analysis. The dataset contains vessel information, and your task is to apply various filters to eliminate 
noise and calculate the time difference between data points for each vessel.

Task 1: Create a NoSQL Database Cluster

Set up a cluster of NoSQL databases either on your personal machine or on MIF virtual machines.
Configure the cluster and ensure its proper functioning, can be replication setup or sharding setup. 
(sharding will graded higher)
Docker compose is recommended, but not mandatory

Task 2: Data Insertion in Parallel

Implement a program to read data from a CSV file.
Use separate instances of the MongoClient for each parallel thread or task.
Please insert in the database such an amount of data that is sufficient to your PC or visual machine memory.

Task 3: Data Noise Filtering in Parallel

Implement a parallel data noise filtering process that operates on the inserted data.
Identify and filter out noise based on specific criteria, including vessels with less than 100 data points and missing or 
invalid fields (e.g., Navigational status, MMSI, Latitude, Longitude, ROT, SOG, COG, Heading).
Store the filtered data in a separate collation within the NoSQL databases.
Consider creating appropriate indexes for efficient filtering.

Task 4: Calculation of Delta t and Histogram Generation

Calculate the time difference (delta t) in milliseconds between two subsequent data points for each filtered vessel.
Generate a histogram based on the calculated delta t values.
Analyze the histogram to gain insights into vessel behavior.

Task 5: Presentation of the Solution

Record a short video, where you showcase one of the Mongo database instance failures and how it's continued to work.

Submission Guidelines:

Upload the code and solution to the "Big data analysis" section of https://emokymai.vu.lt/.
Late submissions will be penalized by deducting 0.5 points from the total score per hour.
Note: All groups have the same assignment version, and collaboration within the group is encouraged. 
Good luck with the assignment!
